DAY 10 - CLONE, FORK & COLLABORATION

1. What git clone does:
git clone downloads a complete copy of a GitHub repository to my computer. It creates a local folder containing the project files and Git history. It also connects my local repository with the remote repository.

2. What a fork is, and how I discovered it (the edit attempt on octocat/Hello-World):
A fork is my own copy of another person's GitHub repository under my GitHub account.
I understood the purpose of a fork when I tried to edit the octocat/Hello-World repository. Since I did not own the repository and did not have direct write access, I needed to work with my own fork instead.

3. What happened when I tried to edit a file I didn't have write access to:
When I tried to edit a file directly in the repository, I found that I did not have permission to make changes to it.
This helped me understand why forks are useful. I can fork someone else's repository, make changes in my own copy, and then contribute those changes without needing direct access to the original repository.

4. What I did with git clone on my own fork:
I cloned my own Hello-World repository to my Desktop using git clone.
After cloning it, I entered the Hello-World folder and checked the repository history, remote connection, and README file.

5. What a remote-tracking branch is (git branch -a, and switching to patch-1):
A remote-tracking branch is a reference to a branch that exists on a remote repository.
When I ran git branch -a, I saw several branches, including:
master
origin/master
origin/octocat-patch-1
origin/patch-1
origin/test
I then used git switch patch-1. Git created a local patch-1 branch and connected it to origin/patch-1.
After switching to patch-1, I checked the README file and saw:
Hello World!
Hello, Abubaker.
This helped me understand how remote branches can be viewed and then worked with locally.

6. Commands practiced today:
cd ~/desktop
git clone https://github.com/AbubakerAfzal01/Hello-World.git
cd Hello-World
git log --oneline
git remote -v
cat README
git branch -a
git switch patch-1
cd ~/desktop/git-github-practice
mkdir Day-10
cd Day-10
touch clone-fork-collaboration.txt
touch README.md
cd ..
git add Day-10/
git status
git commit -m "Add Day 10 folder structure"
git push
